---
title: "Graphcore Research are hiring!"
date: 2024-10-09T01:00:00-00:00

layout: single
category: "posts"
tags:
    - hiring
toc: false
---

**We are pleased to have announce we have a number of open positions for Research Scientists and Engineers to join our team.**

<h2 align="center">Apply for Graphcore Research <a href="https://boards.greenhouse.io/graphcore/jobs/7658132002">here</a>.</h2>

The Research Team's role within Graphcore is to help define what the next generation of AI compute systems should look like.
Specialised hardware has been the key driver of the progress of AI over the last decade, and we believe that hardware-aware
AI algorithms and AI-aware hardware developments will continue to be critical to the advancement of this exciting field.

As a team, we immerse ourselves in the research community to determine where the field will likely go next, and help to 
steer that direction. We participate in both fundamental and applied research, to characterise the computational requirements
of machine intelligence and to demonstrate how hardware can drive the next generation of innovative AI models. We publish at
leading AI/ML conferences, such as NeurIPS, ICML and ICLR, as well as specialist workshops, and collaborate with other
research teams and organisations across the world.

We're looking for people who are keen scientists and engineers, with a desire to work at the frontier of AI who can push the
boundaries of current compute capacity, and help to discover new and innovative ways to improve the capabilities of models. 

Some example topics we're interested in include

* Expand reasoning and knowledge retrieval capabilities of LLMs over long context windows
* Improve the energy efficiency, scalability and stability of new and existing architectures
* Apply state-of-the-art machine learning methods and tools to physical and life sciences

This isn't an exclusive list, and we're keen to hear from people with a different and bold perspective!

Our team is based across London, Cambridge and Bristol, with projects and discussions that involve all our locations.

You can get a sense of our past work by scanning through <a href="https://graphcore-research.github.io/publications/">our previous papers</a>, and see 
what directions are current exciting us by looking through our <a href="https://graphcore-research.github.io/papers-of-the-month/">Papers of the Month</a> blog posts 

If you're excited to be at the forefront of AI supported by new hardware, we'd love to hear from you!

<h2 align="center">Apply for Graphcore Research <a href="https://boards.greenhouse.io/graphcore/jobs/7658132002">here</a>.</h2>